Q1. The two articles both articulate an ethical problem related to their topic (industry-standard design tools & the current scale and state of open-source tech). Define what you consider to be the author's positions in relation to these two topics and how they overlap. What connections can you draw between these two articles? Do they prescribe solutions that are pertinent to each other? 
Q2. Aside from the mastery of certain digital tools and programs, what skills do you see as integral to your graphic design practice?

ANSWERS:
A1: 
Both authors communicate in their respective articles the necessary shift needed to be taken in the world of programming and software options. The authors have a similar stance on open-source tech needed and how things should change from the same old tech companies we’ve come to know. Not only would this allow for modifications and developments that can help users in their work, but also for sake of losing power over one's abilities/tools, which at any point can be impacted for the worst. Reading these two articles there is a clear emphasis on how its own users are neglected and not taken into consideration as a joined party. There is a connection between designers and coders who feel there is a monopoly on certain software's and programs (Apple, Microsoft, Adobe), leading many to create their own software repository where they can learn and grow as programmers. However, the inevitable as always occurs, which has been seen time and time again, when these big boss companies buy out smaller ones or even upcoming competition. This concludes many to wonder, myself included, if there is an escape from this frenzy, where one company is coined “the best and only option.”? A similar conclusion/solution is drawn to, as simply having an open discussion about the development of certain programs. Ones that can be more diverse and democratic for their users, allowing for more freedom and giving that open- source option.

A2: 
I personally see drawing very essential in my graphic design practice, particularly sketching on a note pad/sketch book first before opening anything else. Although I don’t think every graphic designer must know how to draw, I see it for myself as a stream of consciousness prior to anything else that allows for creativity to flow. Most of the time it is very rough and messy, which is a part of the process.
